A Combined Guru Yoga for Marpa, Mila, and Gampopa
by Situ Pema Nyinjé Wangpo

kyema, zungdzin marik chingwé drawa la
Alas! How hapless we sentient beings are,
tumpé rangshyen semchen nying ré jé
Tangled in the ensnaring web of duality and ignorance.
dani ngedön nyingpö seng lam chok
Henceforth, I will apply myself to the supreme path of the secret essence,
rangjung yeshe né la bepar ja
The definitive meaning – the state of self-arisen wakefulness!

ngö kün chö nam tongnyi chenpö ngang
All phenomena are great emptiness, and from within this state
nangwé tsal lé ma gak kyilkhor shar
The apparent display – the unceasing maṇḍala – arises.
dün khar ngaden ja ö tibpé long
In the sky before me, in an expanse of five-coloured rainbow light,
pé nyida den sum sal ü ma la
Is a lotus, sun and moon-disc seat. In its centre
gyé dzé heruka ngö lo tsa ché
Is Heruka Hevajra, the Great Lotsāwa,
chökyi lodrö genyen chaluk chen
Chökyi Lodrö, in the attire of an upāsaka.
rab ji zibar zilnön chakgya dzé
Radiating majesty, he displays the mudrā of subjugating.

yé su jetsün mi la töpa ga
To his right is noble Mila, Töpa Ga,
ré kar la gö semnyi ngalsö tsul
Who wears a white cotton shawl and sits in the resting-mind posture,
dorjé gur yang tam bu ra shyin drok
While singing vajra songs like the sounding of a lute.

yön du da ö shyönnu rabjung ché
To his left is Da’ö Shönnu1 in renunciate’s attire,
u la gom shyu nyam shyak chakgya chen
Wearing a meditation hat. With his hands in the mudrā of equipoise,
mi tok tingdzin zabmö dön la né
He rests in the profound state of non-conceptual samādhi.

shyenyang tengok bar tsam tamché du
Above and below and in every direction all around
chö long trul dang kagyü lamé tsok
Are the dharmakāya, saṃbhogakāya, nirmāṇakāya,
yidam daki pawo naljorma
Kagyü gurus, yidam deities, ḍākinīs, vīras and yoginīs,
damchen chösung lasok kyabné nam
Oath-bound Dharma protectors and more – all other objects of refuge,
trin tar tib shyin rabtu salwar gyur
Gathered like cloud-banks and vividly present before me.
Visualise that. Then say:

kyého, dü sum gyal kün gyi gongbu
Alas! You embody all victors of the three times;
chikdü tukjé yi terchen
You are a treasure trove of their awakened compassion,
jinlab bum zang gi daknyi
A precious vase containing all their blessings—
jetsün lama rang khyen no
Venerable Guru, know me!

tenmé trul jam kyi semchen
Look upon us helpless beings drowning in delusion,
chömé drepo la zik dang
Lacking the Dharma, our mind-streams so warped!
ngensong khorwa yi dam lé
With the hook of your awakened power,
nütü chakkyu yi drong shik
Draw us out of the swamp of saṃsāra and its lower realms!

dak sok khanyam gyi drowa
Think of me and all those like me,
kyabmé göndral la gong dzö
Us infinite wandering beings without refuge or protector!
dechen tar chok gi shying du
Grant your blessings that we may be quickly led
nyurdu drenpa rang jin lob
To the supreme realm of liberation, Great Bliss!
Recite this prayer several times in the manner of ‘calling the gurus from afar’. Then say:
nangsi lamé kyilkhor dé tamché
The Guru’s entire maṇḍala, the whole of appearance and existence,
ö shyu tsor tim deyang rang la tim
Melts into light, dissolves into the central figure, who then dissolves into me.

lama rangsem yermé nyukmé ngang
The Guru’s mind and my mind are inseparable in the innate continuum.
machö tröpa kündral long du shyak
I rest in that state, the unmodified expanse free of all complexity.

Conclude by dedicating the virtue and so on.

This was written by Situ at the request of his faithful disciple Dargyé. May it bring goodness!

| Translated by Laura Dainty with the kind assistance of Tsangsar Tulku, 2021.

Source: pad+ma nyin byed dbang po . "mar mi dwags gsum gyi bla ma'i rnal 'byor/." In gsung 'bum/_pad+ma
nyin byed dbang po/. BDRC W1KG4280.  Upper Bhattu, Distt. Kangra, H.P.: dpal spungs
gsung rab nyams gso khang /, 2006. Vol. 1: 11–12.

Version: 1.0-20211025
↑ ‘Youthful Moonlight’, i.e., Gampopa.